hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here
coming to you via the China history
podcast calm moving right along were
picking up where we left off last time
in part one of our overview of the
Chinese Civil War in the last episode
119 we looked at the mediation phase of
the Civil War or war of liberation as
it's called in the PRC the forces led by
Chiang kai-shek
and matza dong had been slugging it out
since the late 1920s but thanks to the
Japanese invasion and the involvement of
the Americans and Russians in China's
internal affairs I might add the two
sides are forced to delay their duel to
the death but not now not here in part
to know the Americans have gone home and
now it's the PLA versus the NRA and to
the victor goes all the spoils coalition
governments forget about it that train
already left the station that that boat
already sailed
in this episode we'll mainly look at the
year 1947 the year the Truman Doctrine
was announced although things were by
now already quite chilly it's with the
Truman Doctrine that many call the
beginning of the Cold War and as I
mentioned in the previous john service
episodes once China was lost air quotes
around those four letters the Cold War
went into overdrive by 1947 most of the
foreigners who had somewhere else to go
they had already left and trust me when
I say the sentiment amongst the expat
crowd as they headed for the emergency
exits was that the Communists and all
their sympathizers and enablers were
ruining a good thing for them in China
we ended last time with the communist
forces now branded as the PLA since May
of 1946 taking and holding the city of
Harbin
in Heilongjiang Province the year closes
with Jiang counter-attacking in the
north and northeast launching his
so-called strong point offensive and
amidst this hostility and fighting
George Marshall and his share and utter
frustration after conferring with
President Truman headed back to
Washington this time for good at the
start of 1947 Jung Kai shek and the
whole nationalist regime couldn't have
looked any better on paper they were in
control of 80% of China
Jung's prestige was at an all-time high
but starting in 1947 whatever remaining
popular support the Nationalists enjoyed
is gonna be eroded at a very fast clip
they're going to be outperformed and
outmaneuvered on the battlefield and in
domestic affairs concerning the people
the KMT will blow it big time with all
this real and imagined prestige that
Jung enjoyed he decided he finally had
sufficient political capital to make a
sincere effort at reforming the party
and the country he saw what was going on
and heard the public outcry against the
stagnation of the economy and the
corruption of his officials no matter
the Generalissimo sincerity it was a
case of too little too late and simply
not having a management team in place to
implement the plans
Jung's latest reforming efforts like all
other attempts on a national scale that
came before turned into another
opportunity for whoever was well
positioned to do little profit taking
from the system despite Jung's sincere
efforts nothing came of this the KMT had
all this power in their hands but for a
number of well-known reasons corruption
must notably these plans failed by mid
1947 hyperinflation was destroying the
economy adding to Jiang's military
troubles and making a mockery of his
proposed reforms Capital fled the
country for safer markets in Hong Kong
and Southeast Asia
sadly in 1947 China's largest source of
income came from US loans
unemployment skyrocketed as the
blackmarket became the mass market and
legitimate businesses all suffered from
this disruption and the economy caused
by the financial and monetary crisis
this in turn had a ripple effect that
meant high unemployment loss of a tax
base the usual stuff john kai-shek had
more on his plate than just dealing with
the CCP this wasn't a zero-sum game
between Mao and Chung just because
people were losing faith in the KMT and
turning away it didn't mean they became
my old people far from it
this was especially so in the cities in
the countryside the peasants had learned
over the years not to expect any great
things from their leaders one of the
facts of life for the peasantry going
back to say oh the Han Dynasty had
always been the occasional visit from
some army our armies marched in and
marched out of all these villages and
small towns in China and throughout the
Civil War the peasants invariably
suffered from the whims poor discipline
and political measures of whoever was
passing through communism socialism
capitalism all meant nothing to this
part of the Chinese populace they were
famous fence sitters who embraced
whatever was conducive to their
well-being and in this respect this was
how Mao ultimately won the day in the
countryside land reform propaganda and
doctrine ation Mao was determined to get
these guys off the fence so he called
for more militarization of the
countryside after land reform happened
at many villages the peasants said even
more so this was a reason not to abandon
the land and fight in the PLA now they
had land to tell so it made no sense to
walk away now so this was another
obstacle to recruitment faced by the PLA
this was another reason that for so long
the peasants always opted to be
spectators of the Civil War but there
were still multiple uses for the
peasantry beyond firing a gun the CCP
cadres would get them organized to
handle
and other tasks that would also serve
the PLA they could dig ditches carry
stuff treat wounded supply grain destroy
railroad tracks and telegraph wires you
name it the Communist says everyone
probably has read did a masterful job at
organizing the masses in the countryside
to chip in to take part in a whole
myriad of critical non-combat roles in
this way to the PLA was taken care of
and the revolution turned out in their
favor
even though ninety percent of China's
people still lived outside the urban
areas Zhang's strategy was to
consolidate himself with the 10% first
and then when all was secured then he'd
get around to dealing with the 90% but
mouth strategy called fer the opposite
so the NRA National Revolutionary Army
Gua Amin coming June the troops led by
the KMT
they started off 1947 with a bang taken
more than a hundred and fifty towns back
but they didn't wander too deep into the
countryside as I mentioned last time the
PLA forces in the northeast under the
command of Lin BL held on to the city of
Harbin
Zhang was able to shoe lean away from
other major cities and towns in
Manchuria but not Harbin that remained a
communist stronghold still is today
concurrently while all this was going on
you had a student movement that liked
these student movements of today just
sort of grew very quickly from a seed
and even without the social networking
tools we take for granted today the
message was disseminated effectively
these students were not communists they
were mostly anti-war KMT didn't want
that in fact neither did the Communists
but these student marches became more
and more regular vociferous and bigger
in size and because the economy had
tanked big time the working men had it
much harder than usual and then strikes
began breaking out everywhere every day
in Shanghai there were workers strikes
and you never knew when you'd be
affected by you know whatever services
the grievance of that
a was directed at when the students and
the workers began to see the potential
synergies and joining together the two
groups United as they so often do in
modern history even today in other
countries you'll see the students and
the workers joining together in their
demonstrations these two groups were
usually calling for the same political
and social reforms affordable tuition
and access to education higher pay less
working hours benefits and both sides
were against the Civil War they were
anti inflation and for reforming the
economy and they wanted something done
about the massive unemployment well
you'd imagine the KMT and CCP pulled out
all the stops to infiltrate all these
student organizations and these unions
they were becoming a political force to
reckon with and both sides attempted to
influence them while we're still in
early 1947 let me back up a second and
mention the 228 incident also referred
to as the 228 Massacre when I lived in
Taiwan during the summer of 1980 a
couple of the many things you didn't
want to be overheard talking about was
Mao Zedong
and hour by hour hour Bob means to 28th
February 28th in Taiwan you couldn't
openly talk about this until 1995
once former President Lee Heung whay
mentioned it then it was officially okay
to add this topic to the public
discourse in Taiwan the Japanese as you
no doubt vividly remember had occupied
Taiwan since 1895 when they grabbed it
for their own after the Treaty of
Shimonoseki
now I'm sure no one likes any foreign
power lording it over them but at the
end of the day after 50 years the
Japanese occupiers hadn't done too bad
of a job running the place like they did
well you remember I'm sure from last
episode Civil War part 1 how after the
Japanese surrendered the KMT rolled in
to all these major cities and towns of
Manchuria and many of them carried their
carpet-bags with
them and the foul odor they gave off
from the abuses carried out under their
authority quickly turn the locals
against them not so much that they were
you know uniting and rising up and taken
to the streets but more than enough to
turn popular sentiments against them so
in this kind of dynamic that existed in
early 1947 with local resentment against
these KMT types from the other side of
the straight and they're heavy-handed
tactics as soon as they got there all it
was gonna take was an incident and just
as it happened in Tunisia on December 17
2010 so it happened in Taipei on
February 27 1947 a seemingly minor
incident occurred when the Taiwan
equivalent of something similar to a
chunk wand or Street enforcer
confiscated the meager inventory of some
40 year old woman's street vendors
selling bootleg cigarettes and whatnot
and for good measure they roughed her up
too right the public pistol-whipped er
brazenly in front of all those hanging
around that stretch of Nanjing West Road
people crowded around the officer
yelling abuses and spouting a little
good old-fashioned outrage at how he had
treated this street vendor and before
you know at the scene got ugly and one
of these enforcers from the tobacco
monopoly Bureau who knows what was
running through his head he fired into
the gathering crowd and one of the
protesters gets shot and killed back in
those days the KMT didn't have the
firepower available in Taiwan and
numbers sufficient enough to put down
any major disturbances like they
suddenly had on their hands and with
this incident that happened on February
27th and especially into the next day on
February 28 1947 the outrage by the
locals was rather substantial the
protests were loud and the message was
hey everything was fine here until you
guys came you know John had big plans
for Taiwan he didn't know yet that
that's where he'd ultimately be ending
up but back in the hopeful days of 1947
he considered Taiwan crucial
to his future plans for China so when
all these reports made it back to him
that suggests that the local people had
other things on their mind well
something had to be done it took more
than a week till March 9th when there
was sufficient muscle on the ground
shipped across the Strait from Fujian
province once Jang had everything in
place let's just say he quelled the
uprising and the numbers vary from
10,000 to 30,000 killed over the actual
putting down of the protests and the
Shanghai massacre style political white
terror that followed I'm going to
reserve for the remarks on the 228
incident until I go to Taiwan in 2014
and do a little more local research I
just wanted to mention it here as it
shines a little light on the
difficulties that young faced while
trying to consolidate power after the
Japanese went back home he was trying to
handle a whole lot more than waging this
war with Mao Zedong so more on 228 on
another day after I've been more
properly schooled in the history of that
place seamless ching chong in tibet i
won't get too deep into the details here
as i want to make these two topics
stand-alone series for a later day the
big picture for the purposes of our
episode today was like this look on a
map of China if you overlay the whole
map of China onto a map of the u.s. New
York City would be about where Shenyang
is and LA would be way out in western
Tibet most of the action in China Oh
since about the time of the Yellow
Emperor maybe even earlier always happen
to the eastern part the United States
we're doubly blessed with two long sea
coasts on both sides of the country
China's only got one so while we have
Seattle Portland San Fran San Jose II
Vegas Phoenix San Diego LA and Claremont
all on or near the west coast China only
has a Russia and Lhasa no west coast so
the action was always
in the east and the farther west you
went the less was the government's power
of gravity always was well not anymore
but way back when it wasn't so easy to
govern those places directly so wouldn't
you know at the Ching dynasty keeled
over in 1911 and died and then all these
warlords rushed in the people of Xin
Jiang in Tibet you know with nobody
watching them anymore he had gotten a
nice little taste of autonomy Tibet had
worked out a deal whereby they said hey
yeah we're part of China but they had a
very long leash as far as autonomy there
and how they wanted to do things
so when Zhang decided the time had come
to go reassert authority there the
locals weren't so sure they wanted to
join the Republic of China plus the
British because of India were still in
Tibet and had the air of the leaders the
Dalai Lama chief among them so this
added an interesting dimension to the
backstory Britain felt an independent
Tibet would act as a far better buffer
between China and India than simply
relying on the geography that separated
these two giants Nehru also thought this
was a good idea and tried to influence
events in this direction but at the end
of the day neither the Brits nor the
Yanks were willing to ante up in Tibet
so they moved out of the way and Zhang
therapod slowly began to assert control
in Xin jung jung had to deal with the
ETR the East Turkestan Republic that had
been set up in its second incarnation in
1944 guess who backed them Joe Stalin
that's who so they weren't gonna be a
pushover Jung tried to bring them to
heel but it wouldn't be until after the
establishment of the PRC that Xin Jiang
was indelibly printed on a map of China
that's a whole long future series while
Jerrica shek was busy taking control of
Taiwan his efforts in the north and
northeast you know with his strong point
offensive were bearing some fruit the
PLA was fighting for it's very survival
the NRA generals who were leading the
charge all over the north
China where li zongren food soya do you
Ming and hutong nan and it's who Tong
nan who is going to lead them to their
most glorious yet hollow victory of the
Civil War on March 12 1947 with a
hundred and fifty thousand troops 75
aircraft the KMT 1st and 29th armies
charged in tomorrow's yen on base for 12
years this obscure town in Shaanxi
province had served as the Communist
military and political base since the
conclusion of the long march 1935 the
troops led by who told on blue in there
and despite Punk defy putting up a
respectable defense with only 20,000 men
there was no way to hold back the shock
and awe of the NRA this battle john
kai-shek was determined not to lose
general who told on unbeknownst to him
had a mole in his office his own
personal Secretariat said she had been
feeding details of the upcoming assault
on yen on to her handlers who got word
back to Mao's guys so the Communists had
a good two weeks to methodically close
the shop down and move everything even
the printing presses that some of them
might have been even spitting out
pamphlets since the Jing Gong Shan days
everything got moved out along with the
entire top leadership of the CCP
Mao elected to abandon yen and only
because he didn't feel like borrowing
forces from elsewhere to defend this
important base it wasn't only his
capital it was also the control center
for the whole Sangha Ning been chief
which as the name suggests was the
military region of the CCP that
controlled parts of Shaanxi Gansu and
nisha once he learned from his informant
what kind of force was going to be
knocking on his door Mao knew that to
fight this battle might end up being a
bridge too far so he opted to bail
instead and Mao famously said as he left
we will give Chang yen on he
we'll give us China the leaders all
split up and fled to the north and to
the east then on March 29th 1947 they
all met up in the remote village of
Saladin cult this is north of yen on
about 200 kilometers west of tiger and
in neighboring Shaanxi who told on would
hold on to yen on as long as he could
but he'll cash out in 1948 abandoning
yen on to its rightful owners macho and
lie rent be sure Leo shot she chewed all
one happy family there and Sal didn't go
the top guys had a powwow and discuss
strategy Mao then ordered everyone to
the Jing cha ji region
this was another military region this
one covering Shaanxi parts of Inner
Mongolia and Hebei by April
everyone was in place now it was
hopefully gonna be clobberin time from
here on out until the last holdouts are
flushed out in 1950 it's a lot of
battles and military speak I know a lot
of military enthusiasts live for these
kinds of details well if you came here
for a blow-by-blow commentary of each
battle I regret you're not gonna get
much satisfaction here unless anyone has
an objection I'm just gonna look at
things from a more macro viewpoints
otherwise the series will run a hundred
episodes long I can assure anyone who
wants to read the fine print there's a
lot of materials available on the web
about every day of every Civil War
battle that happened between the KMT and
CCP starting in the spring and summer of
1947 the tide is going to turn
inexorably in the direction of the PLA
the PLA had taken quite a beating in
Manchuria during the waning months of
the Marshall mission remember last
episode that's why Marshall went back
home he was trying to mediate and John
kai-shek was yeah yang
and you know throwing everything he
could at the PLA even flying up to
Manchuria to lead things personally
Marshall saw what was going on and he
was gonna waste any more time so he
bolted in January 1947 as Marshall was
packing his bags
malsu dong was planning his grand
strategy for 1947 with the same core
group of military leaders that had been
with him since the 1920s and 30s one of
these leaders Judah he had been with
Miles as the day marched into Jing Gong
Shannon 1928 almost two decades side by
side Jang didn't enjoy this luxury with
his generals to the extent that Mao did
and as I said the cooperation he got
from his generals was was not nearly as
solid as what Mao enjoyed there is a lot
of battles and campaigns at places
you've probably never heard of yunsik
Wan Tong early huh Shui nan Marlene Chu
tie on Lin fun and many others lyndie ow
in the mean time was still holding down
the fort up in Manchuria and still in
control of heartbeat Jeong tried his
best to dislodge him and he emptied a
lot of cities of PLA troops and cadres
but not heartbeat in addition to
Manchuria there was the matter of going
after the bases established in Shandong
under Chinese leadership this is the
Communist China future foreign minister
of China there's also a KMT General of
the same name though a different
character Cheung Yee had taken a beating
just like Lin did at the end of 1946 but
on Lunar New Year 1947 the air of the
pig chug he hit back real hard and now
Jang had one throbbing headache dealing
with Lin Bo and Manchuria and China and
Shandong China was facing a terrible
onslaught in Shandong he had wired mile
for permission to retreat but I wouldn't
let him by July 1947 it had gotten so
bad that Mao finally ordered China to
retreat
we split up and scattered in five
directions where they would live to
coalesce another day and they did so and
came back and took Jean on less than two
months later in September of 1947 the
NRA lost a hundred thousand men off
their roster in this campaign fighting
chengyi in shandong after retreating
from Jang strongpoint offensive for much
of the first quarter of 1947 Mao called
for organized summer autumn and winter
counter offenses in northeast China
there's fighting going on all over the
place in China but as you've seen from
pretty much from the start of the civil
war all the real action is taking place
in Manchuria North China and Shandong
Mao and Jung both know that place in
particular had to be taken
there's too much industry technology and
rail transport and since 1935 the north
and northeast had been Mao's turf or at
least he was effective in operating and
organizing up there without impunity
Young's strong point offensive though
effective at first later sort of petered
out and the PLA was able to hold their
base and Hart beam though bruised and
battered in some places Mao knew from
this point on that the NRA could be beat
the pickle a summer offensive took 50
days and in that time the Communists
were able to strengthen and consolidate
themselves in the Northeast they
snatched 42 cities and towns back and it
was the momentum gained in this summer
offensive that gave rise to the autumn
offensive this one was also fought in
the Northeast and the Communists between
this offensive and the one finished in
the summer had killed more than a
hundred and fifty thousand more KMT
troops 15 more cities were taken during
this autumn offensive the northeast was
almost under PLA control almost but not
quite the success of this offensive
forced giong to move six whole divisions
from the south of the great wall up to
the
north this thinned him out drastically
down in those more southern positions
let's focus in on one place that was
being fought over almost throughout the
entirety of 1947 this was the town of
siping in Jilin province
why did young and mile fight so hard to
hold that place that I'm betting most of
you have never heard of before
not once but three times this I guess
you could call it obscure city in the
northeast of China served as the
location where one of the most critical
showdowns between the KMT forces and the
ccp army took place so ping was located
right where Chilean huh Bay and Inner
Mongolia sort of come together you
pretty much have to pass through souping
to get in and out of north and northeast
China the PLA have done its best to
defend slipping after they had taken it
in early 1946 bandits and former
Japanese soldiers had been recruited by
the NRA to hold the city for them not
real NRA troops and then forces led by
leafwich wooden made fast work of them
but once Jian heard souping had been
taken he worked fast to win it back
after a massive onslaught from John's
forces during the strongpoint offensive
the PLA forces had to abandon souping on
May 18th 1946 the CCP had no choice but
to give up sipping so that the PLA
forces could live to fight another day
and that day had come
the souping Chagny or sua ping campaign
was launched in May and June of 1947 and
lasted about nine months ending in March
of 1948 Mao knew how important souping
was young and their whole war effort
this was going to be mouths payback for
yen on the PLA began laying siege to
slipping a hundred thousand strong by
the time they started to lay siege
had been fortified with the NRA remnants
from other battles in telling in
Liaoning province and in Changwon in the
next episode we'll hear more about Qiang
Jordan this is the capital of Jilin
province and also served as the capital
of the Manchu quote puppet state the NRA
hung in there at first they weren't as
easy to beat as originally thought by
June 28th Lin was feeling the heat and
had to withdraw from his positions Jean
sent him packing from souping but he
didn't defeat him the PLA was still new
at this kind of warfare their calling
card had always been the so called
mobile warfare hit-and-run guerrilla
tactics now the PLA was fast becoming as
much of a conventional fighting forces
their KMT opponents the pla of course
was led by lin biao who faced off
against the nra forces commanded by
general Chen Ming grand young had
contacted general Chun personally to
tell him that if they lost so ping they
very well may lose all of the Northeast
he got that one right this winter
offensive that I spoke about it lasted
about three months and like I said
concluded with the taking of souping by
Lin Biao this was a bloody battle second
half of June 1947 saw some of the most
brutal combat that the whole Chinese
civil war would see this was a
bare-knuckle fistfight with the
Communists prevailing early on but
afterwards being forced on June 30th to
make a retreat to regroup the details
regarding these two weeks and slipping
are so numerous and worth looking at
that I decided in midair I might add to
make this whole slipping campaign a
podcast topic in itself one day I'll
decide when I get to GE in one day and
I'll make sure to be there in June not
between November and April
so Lin retreated regrouped and then they
went at it again this time he was better
prepared in the dark winter of 1947 and
then into 1948 Lin Bo and has our
drove the sword through the Nationalists
since looping it was an utter and
complete defeat for junk I Scheck not
only was this very important symbolic
and strategic city lost also lost were
more than 35,000 very hard to replace
troops and on top of that a treasure
trove of arms equipment and ammunition
that fell right into the Communists
hands I mentioned last time that one of
the more popular jokes told about those
days was how Chiang kai-shek had turned
into the greatest arms supplier to the
PLA in the earliest phase of the war
1945-46 the best supplies that the PLA
could get their hands on and they were
thankful for this was captured Japanese
equipment seized after the surrender
some of it they captured on their own
and sometimes you know they didn't know
how to use it or maintain what they got
most of it though was captured Japanese
equipment that fell into Stalin's hands
first and then he would later divvy it
out to Mao as he saw fit as thankful as
they were to have this Japanese
equipment the PLA really was hoping for
the good stuff and back in those days
the good stuff was made in USA all of
this American equipment was going
straight to Jian kai-shek the 1947
trust me the Chie coms had been written
off by Washington and then the u.s. went
and doubled down on the Nationalists by
1947 with every defeat suffered by the
NRA inevitably some or all of their
us-made arms ammo and equipment would
end up becoming property of the People's
Liberation Army sue ping was a major
score for them you know I read also not
only did the Chie comms capture all this
US equipment sometimes corrupt KMT
military officers with access to the
supply chain we just sell it to the PLA
and that's how the winter offensive of
1947-48 finished off with the taking of
souping on march 13th 1948
was where the war was going to enter a
new phase 1947 gave us Young's strong
point offensive which didn't end badly
but not as well as John hoped it would
he did get yen on though and got to kick
his feet up in mouse cave but all in all
despite plenty of good news nineteen
forty-seven wasn't a happy year for the
KMT the NRA or John kai-shek the summer
autumn and winter offensives in the
Northeast were all ending badly for Jung
and in March of 1948 when slippin was
lost the whole KMT military upper-crust
had to be thinkin about a plan B the NRA
wasn't totally finished off yet in the
Northeast everyone knew the prospects
were taking back the lost territory in
Manchuria and being able to hold it were
dismal Zhang's loyal general Chun Chun
and others like him knew the northeast
was lost and to keep on throwing troops
at lin p au jus de Chagny niranjan was
just futile they had been beat fair and
square in the northeast and now in early
1948 the Communists were simply dug in
too deep Manchuria was was no Yin on
that could be taken with brute force now
the Communists were a more formidable
foe than they appeared to be in 1945
there was a sentiment floating around
the top that believed Manchuria should
be abandoned so that all those resources
and troops tied down fighting a lost
cause could be sent south to deal with
guys like Leo botch hyung and dongsaeng
yet yin yang Li xiannian and a host of
other PLA luminaries operating south of
the great wall but to walk away from
Manchuria would have been too symbolic a
defeat for Jung it would utterly negate
all the glory and prestige earned from
capturing yen on if Jang capitulated in
Manchuria it would be too big of a hit
both militarily and politically so Jang
kai-shek refused to back down
this was a mistake those troops tied
down in Manchuria might have made a
difference against the PLA forces in
China proper and in the south do you
think that by listening to this podcast
up to this point that it was curtains
for Jung
we've only been looking at what was
happening up in the very north of China
and in the Northeast and there's more to
China than this region we also glanced
at Tibet and Xinjiang no matter who was
gonna emerge victorious from the Civil
War
those two western regions would be dealt
with at a later time but besides Tibet
and Xinjiang you still had George Jung
sang-soo
on way who Bay Hunan Fujian Guangdong
Guangxi you none all of this is yet to
come in the next episode
this part of china was always young's
power base the communists did not hold
sway around this part of china and they
were gonna have to conquer it armchair
historians have said if only Chang had
heeded the advice of certain of his most
trusted loyalists and retreated to this
part of China the outcome may have
turned out differently for him to draw a
three kingdoms parallel Mao in the
northeast would become like a Holloway
Kingdom young in the South would act as
the swing Wu in the shoe hunt yeah hard
to say but as I said Jung did not give
the okay to abandon Manchuria to the
Communists he fought on and kept digging
his grave there you see this was the
other thing about Jung
history is sorta written him off as more
of a military politician rather than the
field commander type by 1947 and 48 the
Soviets and Mao start to bury the
hatchet though not too deep and there's
now much closer cooperation Soviet
advisors will be flooding into Manchuria
to help miles forces with their war
effort and Stalin though he still thinks
mile has the whole communism thing wrong
knows in his heart
the Jung and the KMT are going down for
the count so Stalin holds his nose so to
speak it starts to build a bridge of
cooperation with the CCP and Mao also
begins to dethaw a little as far as his
attitude about Stalin is concerned in
fact it's right about now late 1947
early 1948 that Mao begins to take steps
to sort of emulate the Soviet leader
John to is gonna keep a pipeline to
stall and open as well John will see in
1947-48
how the winds of anti-communism are
practically dictating u.s. foreign
policy as it relates to China so in
order to secure the necessary US loans
to get him through his short-term
problems John will flirt with Stalin and
scare the Americans just enough so that
they keep the loan spigots on that sword
has two edges as John figures out later
Stalin of course is happy to play along
as he knows this is secretly infuriating
the Americans plus he isn't writing
Chiang off yet as he still might have
some uses to the Russian leader next
episode our story will begin to move
south as I said up till now all the
fighting has been confined to the
northern part of China for more than 12
months the NRA and PLA have fought a
focused and concentrated war in the
north and northeast with the end of the
slipping campaign it's not all over for
John but sure is looking that way in
1948 Mao is going to take the fight
south and next time we'll look at the
three great campaigns that did it for
the CCP these were the Liao shun weihai
and pingjin campaigns they won't be
until April of 1949 that the PLA crosses
the youngster and advances into southern
China but we'll see after those three
big campaigns
jion's forces are softened up enough so
that 1949 will be mostly about finishing
off the Nira and taking control of the
south and then we all know what's going
to
ultimately happen on 10 149 whether or
not we will get to that moment in the
next episode we'll have to wait and see
so that's about it for this time we'll
see if we can finish off this topic in
the next episode or if this one will go
to 4 this is Lazlo Montgomery again and
as usual signing off from the very
farthest edge of smoking hot Los Angeles
County here in the city of trees and
phd's Claremont California thanks for
listening and I hope that you'll be
perhaps joining me next time for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast